CIS v1.5 upgrade guide (#651)
gruntwork-io/docs: _docs-sources/guides/stay-up-to-date/cis/cis-1.5.0/deployment-walkthrough/step-2-update-references-to-the-gruntwork-infrastructure-as-code-library.md

---
sidebar_label: Update references to the Gruntwork Infrastructure as Code Library
---

# Step 2: Update references to the Gruntwork Infrastructure as Code Library

To update to the CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark v1.5.0, you need to update your references to the Gruntwork
Infrastructure as Code Library to use compatible versions. We (Gruntwork) have reviewed and updated all the library modules for compatibility with the new version of the benchmark. As a customer, you need to update to the correct versions of the Gruntwork library to pick up the changes necessary for your infrastructure to be compatible.

The following table provides a summary of all the relevant Gruntwork AWS modules and the respective versions that are

> compatible with CIS AWS v1.5.0:

Reviewer: Put the Patcher mention _first_. Put the table later, into the "manual" portion! Otherwise, you're burying the lede, and I bet some customers will start manually updating before reading about Patcher further down the page.

  <colgroup>
    <col />
    <col />
    <col />
  </colgroup>
  <tbody>
    <tr className="odd">
      <td>
        <p>Gruntwork Repo</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          <strong>Minimum version with CIS AWS v1.5.0 support</strong>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr className="even">
      <td>
        <p>terraform-aws-security</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          <strong>
            <a href="https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-security/releases/tag/v0.67.2">
              v0.67.2
            </a>
          </strong>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr className="odd">
      <td>
        <p>terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          <strong>
            <a href="https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/releases/tag/v0.42.9">
              v0.42.9
            </a>
          </strong>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## 2A Updating with Patcher

Beginning with CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark v1.5.0, Gruntwork is providing an automated way update to the correct versions of the Gruntwork library using a tool we call Patcher.

> 

Reviewer: We need to make it a bit clearer it only works with the CIS Ref Arch (not just random CIS code). Perhaps add it to the compatibility table? E.g., Make the first column "Product" and the first row "Ref Arch"...

    <tr className="odd">
      <td>
        <p>terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          <strong>
            <a href="https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/releases/tag/v0.42.9">
              v0.27.0
            </a>
          </strong>
        </p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          <strong>
            <a href="https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/releases/tag/v0.40.0">
              v0.40.0
            </a>
          </strong>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

If you're a customer who signed up for the Gruntwork CIS RefArch from October 1, 2022 then you can use Patcher to
safely apply the more than 200 version updates that are necessary to be compatible with CIS AWS v1.5.0.

Included in those more than 200 updates are 4 (@@CHECK NEEDED) breaking changes that need to be applied to your
infrastructure. These breaking changes include migrating to our new CIS RDS module. Patcher applies a series of patches
modify your infrastructure code to fix 3 of these breaking changes. The manual migration for the last breaking change
is included in this guide.

> The CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark v1.5.0 includes a requirement to "Ensure no security groups allow ingress from ::/0
> to remote server administration ports", Patcher also includes a patch that configures terragrunt to scan your
> infrastructure and enforce this requirement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark v1.5.0 includes a requirement to "Ensure no security groups allow ingress from ::/0
to remote server administration ports", Patcher also includes a patch that configures `tflint` with the [gruntwork-io/tflint-ruleset-aws-cis](https://github.com/gruntwork-patcher-dev/tflint-ruleset-aws-cis) to scan your
infrastructure and enforce this requirement. Terragrunt now supports running `tflint` as a `before_hooks`.
```

              v0.54.0
            </a>
          </strong>
        </p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          <strong>
            <a href="https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-security/releases/tag/v0.67.2">
              v0.65.0
            </a>
          </strong>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr className="odd">
      <td>
        <p>terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog</p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          <strong>
            <a href="https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/releases/tag/v0.42.9">
              v0.27.0
            </a>
          </strong>
        </p>
      </td>
      <td>
        <p>
          <strong>
            <a href="https://github.com/gruntwork-io/terraform-aws-cis-service-catalog/releases/tag/v0.40.0">
              v0.40.0
            </a>
          </strong>
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

If you're a customer who signed up for the Gruntwork CIS RefArch from October 1, 2022 then you can use Patcher to
safely apply the more than 200 version updates that are necessary to be compatible with CIS AWS v1.5.0.

> Included in those more than 200 updates are 4 (@@CHECK NEEDED) breaking changes that need to be applied to your

Reviewer: Reminder to update

Reviewer 2: Fixed! Thanks

is included in this guide.

The CIS AWS Foundations Benchmark v1.5.0 includes a requirement to "Ensure no security groups allow ingress from ::/0
to remote server administration ports", Patcher also includes a patch that configures `tflint` with the [gruntwork-io/tflint-ruleset-aws-cis](https://github.com/gruntwork-patcher-dev/tflint-ruleset-aws-cis) to scan your
infrastructure and enforce this requirement. [Terragrunt now supports running `tflint` as a `before_hooks`](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/features/hooks/#tflint-hook).

### 2A.1 Installing Patcher

:::info

Patcher can only be installed by customers that have been granted access by Gruntwork to the Patcher repositories. If you'd like access
then please contact sales@gruntwork.io.

:::

Patcher relies on Docker to run patches in containers. Please ensure that [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) is installed on your system.
In the future we will support alternative container engines.

After you've installed Docker, you need to download the appropriate `patcher` binary for your system from the releases repo:

> https://github.com/gruntwork-io/patcher-cli/releases. We only officially support macOS at this stage.

Reviewer: Don't we support Linux too?

```bash
cd <PATH/TO/YOUR/INFRASTRUCTURE-LIVE/CODE>
patcher upgrade cis
```

Patcher will then scan your current directory and its subdirectories, looking for the files containing Terraform or Terragrunt
dependencies.

#### Analysis of module usage

The CIS upgrade analyses your module usage and then displays a list of the modules that need to be updated along with the version that is currently being used and the latest available version for each module.

![Screenshot of Patcher with a list of modules in an infrastructure-live repo.](/img/guides/stay-up-to-date/cis-1.5.0/patcher-modules-list.png)

#### View the changelog for each module

Before upgrading you can view the changelogs for each module.

![Screenshot of Patcher with changelogs for a module.](/img/guides/stay-up-to-date/cis-1.5.0/patcher-changelogs.png)

#### Start the upgrade

:::info

Patcher only changes the files on your local machine and does not run Terraform or Terragrunt `apply` commands. You can review all changes before deciding to run these commands.

:::

Patcher prompts you for permission to begin the upgrade before proceeding. Patcher only changes the files on your local machine.

> If you agree to the upgrade, press `y` and Patcher will update each module in order. When updating to the next version involves a breaking change, Patcher will apply a _patch_ to your infrastructure code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you agree to the upgrade, press `y` and Patcher will update each module sequentially. When updating to the next version involves a breaking change, Patcher will apply a _patch_ to your infrastructure code.
```
